URL of the Prototype: http://openfda.intellectsolutions.com 

URL of the Source Code Repository: https://github.com/IntellectSolutions-GSA-Prototype/OpenFDA_Prototype 

All the source files, installation documentation, readme.md file, supporting documentation, license file, evidence, etc. are uploaded here.

Approach:

Introduction. After reviewing the APIs available on open.fda.gov, we interviewed sample users and came up a use case that will be useful to the end users. Intellect Solution’s prototype is called - Adverse Drug Effects Research System (ADERS). It is designed to provide users with ability to research on adverse side effects of the branded and generic drugs and medical devices. While building the prototype, Adverse Drug Effects Research System (ADERS), Intellect followed all the 13 plays from the US Digital Services Playbook to ensure we deliver successful Agile Service prototype to GSA 18F. Each phase below addresses specific plays.

Requirements. Our approach began by studying the prototype requirements and performing research of the APIs. We identified some sample users and conducted interviews with them. After these meetings, our team developed user stories in an open source tool (Taiga.Io) that addressed following requirements: Functionality, Usability 508 compliance, Security and Technical considerations presented by 18F.

User Experience Design. Based on the requirements gathered, we developed high level user stories that describe end-to-end system behavior. We engaged an experienced team member to design user experience, develop mock-ups, create user flows, and address 508 requirements. Our design incorporated research from top-ranked websites for usability to understand latest design elements. Additionally, we reviewed concepts used by 18F on their projects and developed the user experience. Additionally, our prototype includes other elements from US Digital Playbook such as user feedback, and help or instructions.

Technical Design. We chose all the sub-components that make up our prototype to be – modern and reliable tools, increase reusability, open source and low startup cost, and fast turn-around time.
Specifically, we used following open-source and modern technologies [Attachment E evidence 3], [Attachment E evidence 13]: Amazon Web Services (AWS) SaaS hosting provider [Attachment E evidence 4], GitHub Source control repository, Taiga.Io for project management and user stories, CentOS virtual server hosted [Attachment E evidence 9], Kali Linux platform and Open VAS for vulnerability testing, Angular.js for front-end development, Node.js for back-end development, JSON API specifications

Development. Team Intellect is adept at agile, having done this for other clients. After reviewing the requirements, gathering user stories by interacting with sample users via interviews and meetings, we quickly organized ourselves to be lean and identified core team members. The work was based around sprints or releases. Initial release focused on developing a working prototype in the short time frame as requested by the government. The prototype uses OpenFDA APIs using REST specifications. [Attachment E evidence 10]. Subsequent releases address feedback from unit testing and end user testing, functionality and UI enhancements. [Attachment E evidence 11]. Team members that supported the development of prototype played following role - Technical Architect, Front End Developer, Back End Developer, and DevOps Engineer. [Attachment E evidence 1] Technical Architect played the role of the leader who was responsible for setting the tone of the engagement, execution and overall quality. [Attachment E evidence 2] Used text editors to edit code files; preliminary functional testing was performed on local web services running on development workstations; resulting updates were submitted to the GitHub.

Testing. We are performing following type of testing as part of our methodology: Functionality testing utilizing JSFilddle.Net, Unit testing, Performance testing by reviewing logs, Security testing using Kali Linux and Open VAS.
For configuration management and code deployment, Intellect used Taiga.Io integrates with GitHub to check-in, check-out source code files and collaboration, and scripts were manually executed to update the server with the latest versions of the front and back end files [Attachment E evidence 6].

Security and Privacy. Security and privacy has played an important role in our approach, Intellect designed its prototype by placing huge emphasis on security. AWS is FedRAMP certified and all the connections supporting latest TLS and only use older TLS for backward compatibility. We use OpenVAS to perform weekly vulnerability scans and address the critical and high vulnerabilities within 15 days. As part of our commitment to maintaining privacy, we only capture information necessary to meet functionality of the system. Apache captures IP addresses as part of normal website logging for statistical, performance and security monitoring.

Continuous Monitoring. AWS provides system level continuous monitoring [Attachment E evidence 8]. This helps us setup alerts, monitor system performance, and make necessary adjustments to the prototype behavior in a timely manner. During development, performance monitoring for query response and page displays were analyzed as per normal functional testing and evaluation and adjustments were made to drop response time to 2-9 ms.
